in the rainforests of Irian Jaya male
vocal cop bowerbirds
have been encouraged to create colorful
gardens generations of hens have become
connoisseurs of art bestowing their
sexual favors only on the owners of the
most lavishly decorated courts every
season males construct elaborate Bowers
these are highly decorated with all
manner of natural treasures which are
displayed in the hope of gaining the
approval of a passing hen
some efforts are better than others for
such dull males this kind of sexual
advertising is better than using
colorful feathers female taste can be
instantly catered for by selecting ever
more attractive objects
unlike feathers these treasures can be
rearranged center stage the mossy pillar
is surrounded by constantly evolving
design by continually tinkering with his
treasures the male hopes to find a
winning layout even beetle wing cases
are turned over to reflect light and
catch the females eye eventually the
critical hens fall for the most creative
male and his dazzling work of art but
among Birds there are even cheesier
females in Costa Rica lives the most
discerning of all every female
long-tailed Manakin may select from
among eight emails and in the process
drive them to exhaustion
males form dancing partnerships this
young greenback male has teamed up with
a more mature one to learn the routine
it takes years of practice before the
show's marriage even a passing glance
you